# Digital_Humanities
The printed version of the family tree was scanned both in Tree and in list form.
Abby FineReader was used to turn the scanned image into text. After a few manual corrections to the OCR process, regular expressions were used to parse the data into a recursive tree structure in python, which was then converted into csv format and uploaded to open-refine.
Using open-refine, several mistakes in the original data were found and corrected, and all of the birth/death locations were reconciled using Wikidata and had their coordinates and Wikidata identifiers extracted. In addition, since the GEDCOM format requires each person’s gender, the https://genderize.io/ api was used in order to automatically find the gender of each individual in the tree based on their name (entries with a low confidence rating were verified manually). 
Once completed, the data was extracted into a csv and a second python script was used to update the original tree structure with the added information from open-refine such as gender, coordinates, Wikidata links, etc. 
Finally, the tree was turned into GEDCOM format and then uploaded to myHeritage, which was then used to expand the tree via reconciliation against various databases, such as Yad Vashem, Beit Hatfutsot, The U.S Census and others. The site also contains a gallery for the various family photos and relevant to the tree.  
In addition, the location data was uploaded to https://kepler.gl, and a video detailing the movement of the Waldinger family over the years is attached. In it one can clearly see the great migration to the U.S at the end of the 19th century, as well as the upheaval caused by World War 2. 
All the python code can be found in “fam_tree_parser.py”. The open-refine project data can be found in “Waldinger-Family-Tree.openrefine.tar.gz”.
